Here's a slightly gussied up version of classic  Southern U.S. chicken and dumplings. I made this  
for company the other day. Quite a thing for  a brisk fall evening. I'm especially happy  
with how the dumplings themselves turned out.  Lots of flavor in there, nice light texture.
Traditionally you'd start by just boiling a  whole chicken in water to make chicken soup,  
but I'm going with the far more convenient  and consistent boneless, skinless thighs.  
About a pound and a half, 700g. That might not  sound like a ton of meat for like six portions,  
but remember there's no bone, no skin. That's  all net weight, and I'm just snipping each  
thigh into maybe four pieces. I'm gonna  cook this until the meat is falling apart,  
so the chunks we eat will actually be even  smaller. But if you don't cut them up front  
you're gonna get super long strings  of meat that I think are undesirable.
I'm shortening the meat fibers here, and  I'm using scissors instead of a knife so  
that I don't have to wash the cutting  board. Now, I'm gonna start this more  
like a stew than a soup. Enough pepper  for every piece, some mixed dried herbs,  
enough salt for every piece and then enough  flour to coat, like half a cup, 50-60g and toss.
This how I do breadings whenever  possible — season the food instead  
of the flour or the breadcrumbs  or whatever. It's much easier to  
eyeball the seasoning quantity on  the meat than on a pile of flour.
Heat a good film of oil. If you have bacon grease  or some such this would be a great time to use  
that instead. You really gotta lay the pieces  in one a time. If you just dump them in all at  
once they're gonna congeal into a giant slimy  meatball. Because I've completely filled my pot  
with meat and because I'm on a weak gas stove,  I'm on high heat. But you be conservative if you  
don't know your stove. You don't want anything to  burn. Nor do you want to try to flip the pieces  
until they've browned well on the bottom. If  they aren't brown, they'll stick really bad.
A wooden spoon is definitely the  best way to nudge the pieces off  
the pan. You can really dig down  underneath them without scratching  
the pan. Once I've got those flipped,  I'll run over here and cut 8 ounces,  
227g of mushrooms — in half — the biggest ones  I'll quarter, but they're gonna shrink a ton.
Oops — I got a little burning happening over  here. That could absolutely dissolve in the  
soup and spoil the flavor. The solution is  to grab a wet paper towel with tongs and  
scrub the burned spot clean. Better yet,  don't burn anything at all. These pieces  
are brown enough. I'll push them over  to one side and throw in my mushrooms  
to get a little color on them. I might  even push the pot a little bit off the  
heat so that the chicken doesn't burn. The  heat is only under the mushrooms side now.
I keep coming back to green onions as my favorite  form of onion. Two bunches, lose the roots.  
They're easy to cut, the give you some onion, and  they give you some nice bright green garnish. I  
will reserve said garnish for later and throw the  whites in with the mushrooms. Just give them a  
couple minute head start. And if you're thinking,  "Now's about the time Adam would totally deglaze  
with an entire bottle of white wine," well, you'd  be right. Water or stock would be fine instead.
I've got a pound of carrots here. Thick-sliced  carrots take about the same time to stew soft  
as chunks of dark meat chicken do, so  I'll get those in right away. Then a  
whole carton of chicken stock. Remember,  it's supposed to be more soup than stew,  
so lots of liquid. A pinch or two of salt to  start with — we can always add more at the end.
Maybe I'll grab what's left of this garlic head,  cut off the root ends, bash to loosen the skin  
and I'll just throw those smashed cloves in there  whole. They'll just melt over the long cooking.
Stir, bring to a boil, reduce to a spirited  simmer, then you're gonna cover and do something  
else for 45 minutes. It's not a super long cook,  but still not as fast as a meal from HelloFresh.
With the holidays around the corner, man is  HelloFresh gonna help with weeknight cooking  
around here. Skip the lines at the grocery stores,  save on the cost of takeout — HelloFresh is about  
25% less expensive than takeout, on average.  Several nice chilly weather options there,  
but this pasta is a favorite of ours, and you'll  see that it takes less than half an hour because  
I'm doing this in one shot and my camera can  only record 30 minutes at a time. Got all my  
pre-portioned ingredients here, which minimize  waste. We're on the vegetarian meal plan now even  
though we're not vegetarians. We just want to eat  more vegetables and HelloFresh helps us hit that  
goal, but there's kid-friendly meal plans,  choice protein plans, all kinds of options,  
and you can change or skip delivery days from the  app. If you need help with holiday meals, you can  
order breakfasts for company, or charcuterie  boards, desserts — on top of your normal meal  
deliveries. Try it yourself. Go to HelloFresh  dot com and use code ADAMRAGUSEA70 for 70% off  
plus free shipping. 70% off with my link and  code in the description. Thank you, HelloFresh.
After 30 to 45 minutes of simmering, the  chicken and the carrots are almost tender,  
so I will now add in this 12 ounce,  340g bag of green beans. Just cut  
those into spoonable-sized pieces. At a  simmer, these will take a half hour, max,  
to soften. We want to drop our dumplings when  everything is 15 minutes from being done.
I've got a lot of fresh rosemary and sage  here — very cozy flavors. I'll chop that up  
nice and fine because I'm putting it in my  dumplings. Usually the dumplings are kinda  
bland and they're flavored by the broth. I think  it's kinda fun to reverse that, and what's crazy  
good inside the dumplings is lemon zest. Just  try it. The juice we'll put in the broth later.  
That's what happens when you watch the camera  monitor instead of reality. Close one, Ragusea.
If you have cake flour in the house,  use that instead of all-purpose,  
but all-purpose will be ok. About two cups,  230g. Cake flour is lighter than AP — less  
protein — softer dumpling texture. I'd say two  teaspoons of baking powder, because we're making  
Southern-style chicken and dumplings where the  dumplings are more like biscuits than noodles.  
I think half a teaspoon of salt is enough but  you could do a little more. Garlic powder on the  
inside of the dumplings — that really tastes good,  just trust me. In with our herbs and lemon zest.
Then I'll grab two or three tablespoons of butter,  melt it, pour it in and then mix. If you mix in  
the fat before you mix in the water, you coat  lots of the flour in fat, you're gonna block some  
gluten development and get super tender dumplings.  Also for tender dumplings, you don't want to mix  
up this batter until right before you're ready to  drop it into the soup. Now just mix in just enough  
milk or water to make this come together into  a shaggy, sloppy dough, like a cup of liquid,  
max. It is absolutely key to not over-hydrate  or over mix this. It should be a mess.
You should just barely be able to roll  this into little balls. The fault lines  
created by uneven mixing will get you a crumbly  texture. Don't go any bigger than these balls,  
by the way, because they'll double in size  when they cook. Just drop them into the  
broth. Make sure the heat is high enough  that you've got a low boil. You need that  
to activate the baking powder in there  and get these to puff up. Put the lid  
on so the tops of the dumplings steam  and don't peak for at least 10 minutes.
While I wait, here's my fancy  finishing touch. Not traditional,  
at least not outside of Louisiana. I'm going  to thicken and enrich my soup with a liaison.  
5 or 6 eggs. I'll fish out the yolks and  eat the whites for breakfast tomorrow. In  
classic French cooking I believe the  typical ratio is one part egg yolks  
to three parts cream. Mix that up smooth and  we will add that custard at the last second.
The dumplings are done when they look  done. You can always tear one open. It  
should look like bread inside, not dough.  If you overcook them they get very dense,  
so 10 or 15 minutes, max. I will now  reduce my heat until I see no more  
bubbles. It is now safe for me to stir in my  liaison. People say you have to do a whole  
tempering maneuver. But if you stir it in  briskly, off the boil, it's gonna be fine.
You might have to turn the heat back up  ever so slightly to cook this. You should  
see the liquid noticeably thicken, just  a little, when the eggs cook. Of course,  
if you overcook them, the eggs will curdle,  the soup will look gritty. That is a perfect,  
velvety broth. You could just use cream. Straight  cream is safer, but you'd need a lot more creme to  
achieve the same textural effect, and you wouldn't  get the extra flavor and color of the eggs.
Heat off to be safe with the eggs, and now I'll  taste for seasoning. Needs a little more salt,  
and I'll squeeze in maybe half  of my lemon. If I hadn't used the  
white wine I'd probably do the whole  lemon. And I've got my reserved onion  
greens to stir in at the last minute  thereby keeping them green and pretty.
There you go — slightly elevated cold-weather  comfort food. I love how the stew-like flour  
coating we did on the chicken kinda melts into the  broth and merges the elements together, and I am  
so happy with these dumplings. The strong herb and  lemon and garlic flavor in there is just insane.
Not exactly a low-cal dinner, but we did go  very heavy on the vegetables relative to the  
other elements. Please don't take my version of  this dish as traditional. There's all kinds of  
traditional ways to make chicken and dumplings  and maybe we'll do one of those another day.